INSTALLING OBC FROM SOURCE ON A UNIX MACHINE

Version 2.8.n

First, check if a binary distribution exists for your machine: this
may save you a lot of effort, since it is necessary to install the
Objective CAML system before recompiling obc, but not in order to run a
binary distribution.

If you do want or need to rebuild obc, here are basic instructions.
In what follows, "2.8.n" stands for the relevant release number
(starting from 2.8.0).

1.  Unpack the sources: a directory obc-2.6.n will be created.
	
	tar xvfz obc-2.6.n.tgz

2.  Change to the directory obc-2.6.n, and type

	./configure

    By default, an Oberon-specific garbage collector is included.
    It's also possible to build the runtime system to use
    Hans-J. Boehm's conservative garbage collector, or to use no
    garbage collector at all.

    If your machine is x86-based, then the runtime system will be built
    to include a just-in-time translator from the OBC bytecode into
    native machine code.  You can disable the JIT by specifying
    --disable-jit.  The JIT is based on a virtual machine model
    similar to the one provided by GNU Lightning, and would be easy
    to port to non-x86 architectures -- but I haven't found the time
    to do so yet.

    The default is also to build the GUI debugger.  Doing so requires 
    some GTK stuff to be installed, but you can disable it by specifying 
    --disable-debugger.

    Various checks on your machine will be performed.  If the results
    are good enough, the rest of the installation will go smoothly;
    but if they are bad, then you probably won't notice until the next
    part fails.

    If you want a version of obc that can be built without X windows
    being present on the build machine, then add the flag --without-x.
    The X libraries are loaded dynamically when the display is opened
    in XYplane, so Oberon programs do not depend on the presence of X
    to run, even if they have been built on a system configured for X
    -- unless, that is, they actually use XYplane.

    And if you want to install in some place other than
    /usr/local, you can type e.g.

	./configure --prefix=/usr/mike

    There are other options too: specifically, it's possible to
    disable dynamic linking on systems that don't support it.

3.  Type "make".  This builds the various parts of the system.  It
    takes only a few seconds on a modern workstation.

    The makefiles use the VPATH feature of GNU make in order to
    support build directories (see below).

4.  Check the last two lines of output from the build process: they
    should be 

	The factorial of 10 is 3628800
	Was that 'The factorial of 10 is 3628800'?  Delightful!

    If you feel like running some more tests, some regression tests
    can be found in the 'obc-2.6.n/test' sub-directory.  Typing "make"
    in that directory, followed by "./regress" will automatically run
    the whole test suite, showing differences in the code generated
    and in the output of the test programs.  Some other tests that
    exercise profiling, separate compilation, and linking of C
    primitives are run by typing "./bigtest" in the same directory.

5.  If you want to check out the X windows implementation of XYplane,
    type (in the obc-2.6.n directory)

	make tartan
	./tartan

    This compiles and runs a program that displays a dynamic random
    meta-tartan pattern.  Type 'q' to exit.

6.  Become super-user and type

	make install

    The obc compiler and tools will be installed in /usr/local/bin,
    /usr/local/lib/obc, and /usr/local/man/man1.


BUILD DIRECTORIES

It is possible to use build directories to build versions of the
Oberon-2 system for multiple architectures in completely separate
directories, but doing this depends on having at release 3.08 of the
Objective CAML compiler.  Create a subdirectory of the main obc-2.0
directory and proceed as follows, e.g. for a Sparc build:

	mkdir sparc
	cd sparc
	../configure
	make
	su -c "make install"

The configure step creates subdirectories of obc-2.0/sparc to contain
the machine-dependent files.


DOCUMENTATION

Apart from the manual pages, there is a document describing how to run
the compiler and what can be found on the library modules.  This
document is generated (using plain TeX) from the source in
doc/obcman.tex, using the macros in doc/jmsmac.tex.  Although the
document was originally set in Lucida Bright, I've tried to make a
version that only uses the basic set of Computer Modern fonts.
For convenience, PostScript and PDF versions of the document are
provided in doc/obcman.ps and doc/obcman.pdf.

-- Mike Spivey
